The allure of distant lands, mysterious, exotic, for centuries men have sought them for wealth, power, and adventure.
But others have sought distant lands for a noble purpose, as fields in which to proclaim the good news of God's kingdom.
Jesus told his disciples,
You will be witnesses of me to the most distant part of the earth.
In imitation of the early apostles, a few courageous men and women early in the 20th century took the good news to remote corners of the world.
Edwin Skinner preached in the subcontinent of India.
W.R. Brown's work in West Africa earned him the nickname Bible Brown.
And Katie Paul, working alone, witnessed in mining camps, company towns, and sheep ranches throughout the Republic of Chile.
Thus, by the early 1940s, a limited amount of missionary work was being done.
But vast areas of the world had not yet received a witness.
How could this good news be spread to the ends of the earth?
In September 1942, the world is at war.
In sharp contrast, peace-loving Christians attend the New World Theocratic Assembly held Earthwide in 85 cities.
At the main city, Cleveland, Ohio, USA, the president of the Watchtower Society, Nathan Nor, delivers the talk, Peace.
Can it last? He explains a startling Bible prophecy that was in the midst of fulfillment.
Many in attendance expect the then-raging war to climax in God's battle of Armageddon.
To them, the words of Nathan Nor come as a surprise.
This international war is not the battle of the great day of God Almighty.
Before Armageddon comes, the scriptures show a peace must come.
Plans are made to take advantage of the anticipated peace period.
I was Brother Nor's secretary, and the governing body was the board of directors in those days,
and the board of directors had the meeting, and they talked about the program of education that Brother Nor had in mind.
The result?
I was one of three that received a special invitation to see Brother Nor at his office.
Brother Keller and brother Maxwell Friend and myself giving astounding news that the governing body had decided to open up a missionary school.
This missionary school was given the biblical name, Gillian.
There was something to use, that building.
It was a nice place to have studies, it's quiet, fresh air, very healthy surroundings, so they could concentrate on their studies.
Confidential invitations to the first class were extended by letter to 100 full-time ministers in the United States.
I was working with a group of sisters, special pioneering, five of us.
We had one mailbox. We'd go and get our mail, of course, every day.
And three of us got three long, beautiful envelopes from the White Star Bible and Track Society.
We've immediately sat down and read our letters, and then we couldn't say another word to each other.
Because in the letter we're instructions to discuss this invitation to this new school of Gillian, only with Jehovah.
Mildred Simkins received such a letter.
Please bring your birth certificate or equivalent with you.
Do not plan on returning to your home after you complete the course.
For no doubt you will go direct from Gillian to your new assignment.
We filled out the application and sent it into the society.
And once later we got our invitation for Gillian.
Well, we still didn't feel we were worthy of it.
But we sold the car and the trailer.
Said goodbye to everybody because we never thought we'd get back to see them again.
I just went home to see my mother.
And all my clothes fit into an overnight bag.
And I had a carton with all the society's books from my library that I put into a little cardboard suitcase
and took my overnight bag with an extra dress or two.
And that was it. That's all the preparation there was.
Brother Nart showed us around the farm.
We realized that would be our home for five months.
And there would be peace there in a war-torn world at that time.
The dedication of the school took place on February 1, 1943.
During the operation of the first class, several patterns were set for future classes.
Very active and humorous.
But at the same time, very serious and inquired of deeper things pertaining to Bible prophecies and the Bible itself.
I didn't know what to do. I was awestricking.
I thought, how little I know what am I going to do?
But they didn't mind. They helped us.
And there were so kind all of our instructions were so loving.
In fact, I'll tell you where the friend used to call us, his precious guinea pigs.
They were working with us and we were working along with them.
Whatever, you know, was presented to us to do. We were just willing.
We just all 100 willing people. That's what it was.
There were examinations and those who passed were granted a diploma.
In its first 50 years, the school graduated 6,707 students sending them to 187 lands.
One thing that sticks very clearly in my mind was a statement by brother Frederick Franz when he said that this is not an experiment.
He said, we know that the good news has to be preached and that is the purpose of this school of Gillian.
As long as this time, this peace period after the war would be going,
why we would be doing this work of missionaries and we would reach the world if possible.
Gillian is still training missionaries.
What was it like to be a member of the 95th class on the school's 50th anniversary?
We'd like to welcome your students of the 95th class.
And today, we'd like to have what we would call an orientation session.
The students come to the school between the ages of 21 and 40.
They must have good physical health and stamina, speak English well,
and have been full-time ministers at least two years.
They're going to leave their family, they're going to leave their friends, they're going to leave their home,
they're going to leave their language, their climate, the food, everything is all gone behind.
They don't even know what kind of they're going to get into.
They don't even think about that because they have a purpose, a goal.
And that's why it's such a joy to be a teacher.
You don't have to motivate these kids here. They're ready to go.
The students tour the Gillian Library and learn where their 175 written tests and reports will be returned to them.
In a classroom, they are greeted by stacks of books that will help them through the next five months.
Brother Norther, this is Ionis President, one of the students to have an education in the Bible.
And he wanted them to cover every book of the Bible and to put as much time on each book of the Bible as five months would allow.
And as we go through, we assign certain verses or chapters for research,
and then the students can go to the society's indexes, look up information, and present that in class.
So that, truly, by the time they finish Gillian school, the Bible really has been their textbook.
On the evening of their first official day enrolled in the school,
the students will introduce themselves to the Bethel family.
It's a time for reflection and even some humor.
One of those many blessings I have to say is meeting my present life montage.
I mean by that she'll always be my wife.
I came to love Jehovah myself as I was a young child.
My grandmother used to relate Bible stories to me as I was growing up.
I asked the man, I said, do you honestly believe that?
And he said, well, yes, all of Jehovah's Witnesses do.
It's what the Bible says, and we take it as the word of God.
I was immediately convinced that I wanted to study with him.
He was the first one that I had ever met that really believed the Bible,
and I wanted to be a part of that.
Can you imagine that I have had long hair,
big motorcycle, and leather jacket?
I was raised a good Catholic.
He asked me a whole bunch of questions why.
Why did I go to church? Why did I celebrate the holidays?
But of course I didn't know the answers.
That made me start asking him about Jehovah's Witnesses and what he was being taught.
I first came in contact with the truth from my two best friends.
We three together were very keen surfers.
Surfing was our entire lifestyle.
Well, unknowns to me, they started studying the Bible,
and in time, one of them came to tell me about the beautiful new system
in terms that would capture my interest.
Perfect surf every day, he promised.
One of my favorite scriptures I know will come true,
which is Malachi 310, which says,
test me out, please, in this respect Jehovah's Witnesses has said,
whether I shall not open to you the floodgates of the heavens
and actually empty out upon you a blessing until there is no more want.
Thank you for letting me be here.
The score starts in earnest.
Using different styles and teaching aids,
principal instructors take the students on a virtual verse by verse discussion of the Bible.
Jesus want people to identify him as the Christ.
That it had ten horns.
Now, the ten horns seemed to picture all of the pieces
into which the Roman Empire was eventually divided.
Let's have two reasons why it is not admissible for a prophet to be destroyed outside Jerusalem.
So here the Anglo-American world power would fight against the remnant,
see the holy ones.
Well, we've enjoyed this session with you very much
and we appreciate all your comments or observations,
but that will end our session for today.
Thank you, class dismissed.
It's like an accumulation of experience that's just bestowed upon you.
If we were to add up all the years of experience that these brothers have,
and then they just give it to you, it's unbelievable.
To benefit from the course,
Gilead student studied three hours every night.
Come morning, the student may find himself presenting a report.
Well, another aspect of the high-prese garment that we want to talk about is the blue sleeveless coat.
What's interesting is that the bottom of this coat was a handsome fringe of bells and pomegranates,
and taken in its entirety, this woven garment pictured Jesus' trunus and faithfulness toward Jehovah.
They have a work assignment during a portion of every school day,
and they keep their preaching skills sharp with regular participation in the ministry.
A person who becomes a missionary should be one of those who just loves the field service,
because that's all they do.
140 hours a month, they spend preaching and teaching.
He's going to adjust to his new assignment, although it's very different,
because he loves the people there, although they're different.
And because he loves people, he'll be able to get along with his fellow missionaries
and peace and unity in the missionary home.
About midway through the course, a very special day comes for the 95th class.
The countries where the students will be sent have been selected.
This is the day when we hand out the assignments to all of these students,
and they wonder, just, what is it going to be?
Morning, we knew that we were going to get our assignment.
We went down to morning worship, and then we had to line up,
and we were waiting to get our assignment, and my stomach was churning,
and I felt really sick.
Sick with excitement, as well as the fact that you knew that whatever brother Jaros said,
the next sentence that came out of his mouth would determine the rest of your life.
Well, we're going to send him not too far away into the Caribbean area,
the Dominican Republic, and they're going to join another couple
that is being sent to Taiwan. It's to Chile.
We were just so excited about going.
We were just when we came to Gillette, it was anywhere in the world,
and we felt like no matter where we were sent, you know,
we'd be happy to jump into it, and so since it is Chile,
it's such a wonderful place, it's like better than our dream.
Well, a good place is Estonia.
To the Leeward Islands, Lasotho, Argentina, in Honduras, Cambodia.
I have a little anxiety.
Will we stay healthy, and will everything works out good?
Will we have the opportunity to continue our service or not?
But we will turn to Jehovah and ask for him and his help
and support in this regard.
About this time, a class photograph is taken.
All right. So close your eyes.
One, two, three. Open. Smile.
Good.
And the classwork continues with offline.
One of the great blessings of Gillette is to be able to listen to lectures
given by members of the governing body.
What is the proof of a good teacher, brother?
The things the student does.
You know, get results from your student, not for yourself,
but get good results from your student, so on.
That the effect of God's word on our mind can have the same effect
if we let it.
This is the point. If we get into its field of influence.
But we've got to do that, and it means effort in our part.
So we have to see the organization and our position and our place in it.
And then we are going to be able to explain it to other people.
If you don't see it, how can you explain it?
You can't teach someone else something that you don't understand.
Make the truth come alive in you, then you will come alive.
And you will find joy in your life.
And you will find joy because you will know that you're associating
with your God, Jehovah.
You will feel that you're walking hand in hand with Him.
Most of them seem to be impressed at the end of it all
with the humility of the members of the governing body.
Brothers are very warm and friendly, down to earth, very human.
And this makes a tremendous impression on the students as they leave here
that there is a loving, caring, kind organization that is backing them up.
As the course nears its conclusion, the students find time
for a bit of relaxation and reflection.
What I think I've gotten out of it is I've gotten a heritage,
a deeper heritage into the truth.
You get this feeling that these are the people that have worked hard.
They've toiled.
And that's the family.
But now they're handing the torch to you.
And they're saying run hard with it.
You can keep the work going.
You'll never ever get another opportunity to spend at least eight hours a day
without having to worry about anything else just to concentrate on building
yourself up spiritually and building your faith up.
You'll never ever get another chance to have the time or the opportunity to do that.
And I wouldn't have swapped it for the world.
Graduation day comes quickly.
The Jersey City Assembly Hall fills with Bethel family members,
close family of the students, and special guests.
We say good morning.
This is the happy day of graduation for the 95th class of the Gilead School.
This is the final step.
What awaits them are envelopes with their diplomas and later,
one way tickets to their assignments.
You're going to 18 countries that has a total population of approximately 170 million people.
Obviously, you will initially be learners.
Who are the experts?
The brothers who are already there.
Teach yourselves and others too to love Jehovah with all your hearts,
so mind and mind and your neighbor as yourself.
Do this, and you'll find that your joy will be great,
and your reward of everlasting life will be made sure.
After listening to a program of encouraging talks,
they make their way to the stage for their last moments as Gilead students.
Very soon, they will be Gilead graduates,
and the 95th class will be sent to the ends of the year.
It's when they walk across the platform
and get their envelope with the diploma in it.
And we know what that means, and this is it.
They've got it, they've made it, they've got through.
The next stop now is their assignment,
and we know that isn't stop.
Really, it's just a beginning for them,
and it's just like part of the family is leaving you.
You just can't escape that.
It's a remarkable testimony to faith,
and to confidence in the organization,
to see what young people are doing.
They sacrifice everything that the world can offer.
They've devoted themselves to this one purpose
of being able to qualify to be a Gilead.
Now, to study and to qualify to go out
and give themselves in further sacrifice.
Yeah, you have to love them, but what they're doing.
What is life as a missionary like?
It's better just three countries
where missionaries have been active for many years.
We didn't really know what to expect.
At this point, we were ready and willing to go
wherever Jehovah would send us.
It was a little strange, but we were really positive
and prepared because of the training of Gilead,
especially the part missionary service.
That's where it trains you to anything,
and you were full of fire, and you talk to anyone.
You come out with a view of a stress
when we were young at Gilead.
This is a one-way ticket.
And this is your assignment.
This is where you're going to be until
Jehovah brings a new system.
Missionaries around the world begin their day
with a discussion of a Bible text.
We want to give the beginning
to our consideration of the text of the day
or this morning.
Today, we're going to start the discussion
and start the discussion.
We're going to start the discussion today.
By whatever means of transportation,
the entire day will be spent in preaching.
One of the first challenges a missionary must overcome
is learning the local language.
Can't first word is tone-e,
and it means to agree.
After being a Gilead,
we were taking in all this wonderful knowledge,
and then they come to Taiwan
and can't speak the language.
Chinese is very difficult,
and so I found it very frustrating.
I know I couldn't express myself
at least a year or more before I could really start
to carry on a conversation with people.
But then when you're limited with the language,
it's just not possible.
So then you have to work extra hard
to know how to put it.
In a simple way that you can understand what you're saying,
and that the person can understand what you're saying,
and you dread them to ask you any questions,
because you have no idea what they ask you.
I think I think that it does a lot of things.
The whole world,
I don't know if you're in Sweden.
Yeah, yeah.
I can't say I don't just believe it is.
Yeah, okay.
See.
Okay, I said Yamato.
Osama is pretty good,
and her question is practical.
Do you live in the conditions
that we see here?
Where is Madan?
When it's here, it's going to pass out.
Here, there's hardly any fortata
where Lerence is going to pass out.
Missionary life is truly rewarding,
but it brings its own special challenges.
Like we're in a country where malaria runs high,
and any sickness is a handicap to the world.
So when we get sick,
it doesn't make us feel good naturally,
and it can become discouraging.
But as a whole,
we see how Jova brings us through.
We get the needed medicine.
We have time.
We're back on the road again.
In order to be happy as a missionary,
one shouldn't be fussy,
one shouldn't be afraid of dirt,
of smells, of mosquitoes,
of all these little beasts,
and also the, let's say, rats and mice and all this.
I mean, you just can't avoid it
because you're in the tropics.
Taking turns.
Some missionaries will be assigned
to shop in local markets for food
and other essentials needed at the missionary home.
We have to wash our vegetables nicely in the kitchen
and put that in the bleach water
for 20 minutes to kill the amoeba.
But after a while, you just get used to it.
The break at Midday finds missionaries
back at home for a family meal.
People are very friendly and practically at each door,
you can talk with somebody.
We sit down at nearly every door.
We meet very few people who say,
I do not believe in God.
They are a people who, as soon as you ask,
can we talk about God, reply, of course.
You see people responding to the message
and you're able to share the kingdom,
truths with them, study with them.
See them make changes.
And it's so, it's fulfilling when you see them
learning how to thank Jehovah.
How wonderful Jehovah God is when they learn that
and that he is the center of all true worship and admiration.
It just swells your heart.
Most missionaries preach in cities and towns,
but sometimes they witness in more primitive territory.
They find good results.
The Ministry is good.
I wouldn't want to change with anybody.
It's really good.
People are friendly.
They are hospitable.
When you go from house to house,
you can sit down in general, they listen.
And it's very easy to have studies.
I have more studies than I can take care of.
When we had our memorial,
1,854 just for our congregation.
Besides that, in our territory,
we had something like 29 baptized just from our congregation
for one assembly.
And in four visits of the circuit overseer,
the congregation divided three times.
Thank you.
Hello.
That is not to say that all Bible studies come into the truth,
but at least in conducting several studies,
you have the feeling of working thoroughly,
of giving a thorough witness to all these people.
And that makes us very happy.
Chores around the home are part of the regular assignment.
The missionary life has got it all.
You feel that you're using your life to the full
in Jehovah's service.
You learn so much living the way we do.
To be a missionary,
you can't be afraid of work.
Because there's a lot of physical work
in the missionary home to keep it clean.
And also, there's lots of work
in the congregation helping brothers and sisters.
And especially in the field,
there's enormous changes that people have to make.
So you really have to work hard
in helping people to come in the truth.
Missionaries have the privilege of teaching
many people the truth it leads to everlasting life.
This is the grandest reward.
When you feel that love from your brothers and sisters
and from the interested people
that you have the privilege to study with them,
it's just wonderful feeling.
I studied with Segundo and his wife Margarita.
They studied with sister Anito Joa
and she studied with Margarita.
So we have one, two, three, four
or a generation.
I believe that I do better than any
medical doctor here that saves the life
because he can save the life for about five, ten, twenty years.
But if I can help somebody to accept the truth,
I can help them to live forever.
What better thing can you do?
A very full day of work
will likely conclude with spiritual meetings
or personal and family study.
You go to bed tired, but satisfied
because you feel you did what you were supposed to do.
Even though they come from distant lands,
missionaries have found new places to call home.
My family is here, my work is here,
all my friends, all my children are here.
Now I am determined to stay here.
And it's our desire to remain as missionaries
as long as Jehovah permits,
our health permits,
and the governments on foreign soil permits.
It's a career,
it's a way of life for us,
and we like to remain forever.
What has been the accomplishment of thousands of missionaries
planting seeds of kingdom truth around the world?
Consider just two examples.
First, Japan,
a country steeped in the Shinto and Buddhist religions,
it did not seem at first to be a likely location
for large harvests of Christians.
In fact, prior to the arrival of missionaries in 1949,
the good news of God's kingdom was almost unknown.
We looked at those people,
and we knew at the time that only a handful
maybe half a dozen kingdom publishers active in the country
we wondered,
well, will anything ever come out of this?
In time,
more missionaries would come.
Over the years,
some 168 would serve there.
Listen to Matsui Ishii,
one of the handful of Jehovah's Witnesses preaching in Japan
for the arrival of Gilead missionaries.
Their influence was truly marvelous.
Before the war in Japan,
there were no meetings or assemblies.
We never got together.
We didn't study the Bible together.
So when the missionary brothers and sisters came,
meetings became regular.
Conventions were started,
and all sorts of things got organized,
so that we, who'd been blind up until then,
were brought to life spiritually.
Those early missionaries found a zealous people,
enthusiastic to learn.
Japan was a fertile field, ready for harvesting.
In the first 10 years in Japan,
and we had up to 60 missionaries in the country by that time,
we got just 1,000 publishers.
I remember when we reached that 1,000 mark
after 10 years of hard work.
And now, in Japan,
they get 1,000 publishers increase every month.
You talk about Jehovah's Speeding the Work Up.
Well, that means it's been speeded up 120 times
since those early days of missionary work.
Now consider what Kili Admissionaries have accomplished
in the vast country of Brazil.
Though long dominated by the Catholic religion,
Brazil, too, proved to be a receptive field
for seeds of kingdom truth.
A graduate of the first class,
remembers the daunting task of organizing the preaching work
in a land so vast.
The publishers were thinly spread all over the whole country,
even though there was less than 400.
When I came with my partner, Harry Black,
there was 394 publishers a peak in the year of 1945.
The early missionary shared in a battle
to legalize the watchtower society.
Only after many years did their efforts triumph.
Nevertheless, the preaching work went on.
The branch committee coordinator in Brazil
was taught the kingdom truth by a Kili Admissionary.
He explains why such missionaries produced good results
in his native land.
It's precisely the same nowadays in the congregation.
If a student has a study with a brother who is weak,
his progress is slower.
On the other hand, if he happens to have a good teacher,
his progress will probably be faster.
The missionaries contribute to more rapid progress
without them that would certainly take much more time
in the training of the brothers
so that they could assume leadership of the work.
So, it's because of the good news
that the message of truth has continued to prosper and grow.
The result?
Today, more than 360,000 in Brazil witnessed to Jehovah's name.
And on the average, more than 60 new ones
are baptized every day.
Similar success stories could be told in many other lands.
For example, in Argentina, Mexico,
Italy, and Nigeria.
In 1993, the total number of Jehovah's Witnesses
was 75 times what it had been in 1949.
Worldwide, during the school's first 50 years,
Jehovah's Witnesses grew from 129,000 to 4.7 million
in 231 countries.
Kili Admissionaries played a major part
in paving the way for that increase.
When Kili Ad was established more than 50 years ago,
vast areas of the earth had not been reached with the good news.
Today, millions still have not heard the message of salvation.
The missionary example encourages all young Christians
to make the full-time preaching work their career.
It encourages those with family or other responsibilities
to do their utmost, to reach out to others with the good news.
In its new home in Patterson, New York,
Kili Ad will continue to fulfill its mandate to train new missionaries.
South Africa area.
All dedicated Christians will continue to work
with the missionary spirit.
To seek out the meek hearted until Jehovah says,
the work is done.
For more than 50 years,
Kili Ad has had an impact on the worldwide preaching work.
It continues to prepare young men and women for missionary service,
and it's wonderful to reflect on what they accomplish.
Thanks to their efforts and with Jehovah's blessing,
great numbers in many lands continue to be helped
to gain the knowledge of the truth.
This is the legacy that Kili Ad is leaving behind.
It is something that will never be forgotten.